Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we're going to learn how to write a recursive function to compute nth Fibonacci number
Okay, so if you have not heard about Fibonacci series, I will tell you it is a very simple mathematical
series in which the first two terms are zero and one and every term.
Every ith term is the sum of previous two terms.
Okay, so I can say the nth term is nothing but it is the sum of previous two terms i.e F(N-1)
+ F(N-2).
And if I talk about what would be the next term, it would be some of these two.
That is one.
what would be the next term?
Some of these two that is 2 the next term would be 3, the next would be 5, next would be 8,
the next would be 13 and so on.
Okay, so what we are given, we are given a particular value of N and we want to tell okay what is
the nth term of this particular series.
So for example 01234567.
The seventh term of the series is going to be 13.
The 11th term is going to be some X, Y, Z.
The fifth term is nothing but five.
So we need to figure it out.
Okay.
So as I said, when we are dealing with recursion, we will need two things.
One is the recursive case that we've already seen.
We already know about this problem.
And second is the base case.
okay.
So the idea of picking this problem is not to teach you the code, because code  is very simple the idea is to teach
you the concept of recursion when there is more than one call.
In the previous question we saw there is only one call happening from each function.
But in this case, from each function call, two calls are going to happen.
Okay.
So we will talk about how the recursion tree would look like in this case and what would happen to the
call stack and so on.
Let's talk a little bit about the base case
The base case is going to be two cases of let's say you are computing for N = 2.
So it was going to make two calls, one on one and one on zero.
But now at one what you are going to do.
Will you make two more calls?
Will you make a call on 0 and -1 the answer is no.
We cannot make calls on the negative indices.
That means we have to take one as a base case and we have to take zero as a base case.
So this part is not needed.
So we will have two base cases here.
The value of N = 0 is going to be 0 and the value of N = 1 is going to be
one.
So let me first show you the code.
And then along with the code, we will try to dry run how this code is going to work.
Okay.
So let's let's make a new program for Fibonacci.
And let's copy a little bit from here.
This is now fib.
And this is now fib
So as I said, we are going to have two base cases.
Okay.
So I can put both of them in a single condition.
If N is zero or N is one, we can return N.
That means if N is 0 we are returning zero, if N is one, we are returning 1 actually.
Otherwise we are going to say we are going to compute two values.
One is f1, that is fib(N-1).
Another value is f2 i.e fib(N-2).
And our answer would be nothing but f1 + f2.
Okay.
So we could have directly written return fib(N-1) + fib(N-2)
But just to make things easier for you, for the first time, I have written the code like this.
Okay.
Now this this will also make the understanding of call stack more clear what is exactly happening.
Now, this is the code.
Let us first run it.
And the
./Fibonacci.
And if I say, okay, tell me the 7th term it is 13, tell me the 5th term it is 5.
That means it is working perfectly fine.
Now let us see what happens.
At the call stack level.
So let's say this is our call stack.
And I'm going to run it for a small example, let's say, for N = 4
Okay.
And now in the in the beginning, we had only main.
What happened is from Main, we made a call to Fibonacci for N = 4
So we called Fibonacci with the value of N = 4 and it tried to compute the value of
F1.
So it made a call to three.
It called Fib(N = 3)
Okay.
And that three, what it did base case is not true.
It tried to make a call.
So another call it will make, but it will make later on that is to N = 2, these call that not
executed yet, this will be executed later.
3 made a call to 2
Okay.
And what happened at 2
2 must have made a call to.
One.
Okay, so fib(2)
It made a call to f(N=1), so at N = 1
We saw that this function.
Hits the base case
And it will not execute this code.
It will return a value of n that is one one actually returned one.
This actually got removed from the memory.
Okay.
So this actually got removed from the memory.
And now what happened is.
This branch is also gone.
Okay.
So this branch returned 1and is now gone from the call stack.
So what is going to happen is, 2 computed the value of  F(1) 2 is not going to compute.
The value of F(2), this function will now execute line number ten for the first time.
At this particular point, so it will make a call on zero and zero will return the value zero
It will make a call on fib with N equal to zero and this is going to return zero and this is again
going to get popped off.
This is going to get removed from the call stack at this point.
This is how the call stack is going to look like, and 2 knows that my answer is 1 + 0 i.e 1
Two is going to tell three that my answer is one.
So three now only knows one of the answers.
Okay, so three knows done.
the answer of F(1).
for three is 1 now three is going to compute F2 for which it is going to make another call.
So this is going to get removed.
This is going to get removed and what is it going to do?
Three is going to make a call on.
Fib(1)
Okay.
So it is going to make Fib(1)
So Fib(1) will get added in the call stack and it will again return
One, two, three.
So it will return.
My answer is.
Also one.
Okay.
So at three, what it is going to do now three knows that I know one answer was one the another
answer was also one so it is going to return one plus one that is two.
And now Four knows that my F1 is 2, four gets to know that one of the answers.
Okay.
And now Four is going to make a call for F2.
That is this line number ten and this call will get executed.
Okay.
So we make a call at 2 so, same story going to repeat, we are going to make a call on one.
One is going to tell and that my answer is 1 and will get added to the call stack.
And then once it returns, it will get removed.
Then two will make a call to zero, zero will return again zero and one + zero is going to be one.
And at four we earlier knew that one answer was two and F2 is now one.
So it is going to return two plus one.
That is three.
So, Fib(4) is going to be so I'm not drawn the call stack completely.
But what I am trying to tell you is if you want to make it easy, if you want to see how many calls
are made or what calls are made.
So the ideal way is to draw it using the recursion tree.
And from this you can easily estimate the space time complexity of the program as well.
What happened at N = 4
let us do it for N equal to five.
If I will make two calls for 4 and 3	, this call will happen later on.
4 will make two calls, three and two.
This call will happen later on.
It will make two calls 2 and 1.
It will make two calls, 1 and 0, one will execute first.
So one will return one, zero will return zero, two will return one and one will return one.
3 will return 2 one plus one i.e two.
Now 2 is not going to return anything directly because it is not the base case.
So we need to further expand.
It, so 2 will make two calls.
It is going to return one, it is going to return zero.
It is going to return 1 + 0.
That is one and four.
It is going to return two plus one.
That is three and five is going to make a call.
on three.
Three is not our base case.
It's going to call on two and one.
It's going to call on one and zero.
It will return one.
It will return zero.
It will return one, it will return one, it will return two and five is going to return three plus two.
That is five.
Okay.
Now, these are the number of calls that we have made and roughly the number of calls in this case.
If I talk about on the first level, I have one goal.
On the 2nd  level, I have 2 call on the next level I’ve four calls, it is a GP and we have roughly
N levels.
So approximately we are making exponential number of calls.
The time taken would be the number of calls, plus time in each call.
So in each call we are doing a constant work that is adding two numbers.
So it is O(2^N)
And what about the space?
How much memory we have taken?
In the worst case, the maximum depth of the call stack would be this much.
Okay.
Because at any point only one of the branch is going to exist in the call stack so the memory of the program
would look something like this.
It is increasing, then maybe decreasing, then increasing, decreasing, increasing, decreasing and
finally zero.
In this particular branch, the utilization is maximum.
Okay.
So it would be something like of this, this is one N equal to one was at this point and this was
N equal to zero was it, something like this.
At these two points, the space utilization is maximum.
So the time is O(2^N) space utilization is O(N).
This is how the Fibonacci is going to work.
I hope the concepts are clear.
That's all for this lecture.
Thank you.